---
title: Terms and Conditions
layout: page
bodyClass: terms-and-conditions
---
## Terms & Conditions

Made By Surface {us, our, we} The Client {you, your, them}

### 1. The Brief

If you are familiar with briefing for web development it is accepted that in
many cases a verbal brief is sufficient for us to provide you with a cost
estimate for work. On larger projects, a detailed brief – in writing via email –
will help us to provide an accurate estimate and act as a reference for both
parties throughout the development process. Our estimate will outline the scope
of the project based on our understanding of the brief.

If you are not familiar with providing a brief, then you can contact us to
discuss your development needs, invariably we will have questions for
clarification.

### 2. Schedules and Timeline

**Deadlines:** You must make us aware in the original brief of any deadlines
that must be adhered to. If there is no prescribed deadline, then we will agree
on an appropriate schedule with you before we start work.

**Overrun:** Where projects run over the agreed time schedule you will not be
charged extra unless it is deemed that the over-run is due to excessive
alterations to content or changes to the original brief, made by the client.
Wherever possible we will try to give advanced warning before an agreed budget
is breached and a route to completion or additional costs will have to be agreed
before proceeding further.

### 3. The Estimate

All work will be estimated based on its complexity and size. Estimates will be
clearly itemised and any additional costs, such as paid-for plugins, purchasing
of domain names etc. will also be clearly itemised as part of the estimate. If
additional costs occur after the original estimate, i.e. purchasing new fonts as
part of the development, or additional features are incorporated into your
project, you will be consulted and provided with an revised estimate for your
approval. All estimates are valid for 30 days.

### 4. Before We Begin

Once you are happy with your estimate we require written permission to begin
work. This can be in the form of an email or a letter, but must be in writing.
It is important that if you have any queries or wish to change anything about
your original brief that you do this before you send written permission to begin
work. Any alterations after this point may require a revised estimate.

### 5. Credit & Payment

For new clients’ first commissions, we require the total estimate paid in
advance before we start work on the project. A ‘small project’ does not
constitute a first commission - only projects with an estimated production time
of more than 8 hours will qualify. Depending on what other services are included
in any one particular project, we may require an incremental payment at a
predetermined point – mid-project, for example.

The final balance of the estimate will be expected within 28 days of completion
of the project. In accordance with ‘The Late Payment of Commercial Debts
(Interest) Act 1998’, any invoice not paid within 30 days of the invoice date
will be considered ‘late’. We will claim interest on overdue payments at 10%
above the prevailing Bank of England base rate.

**Dormant projects:** A project is deemed ‘dormant’ when there has been no
progress made, on the client’s part, for more than 28 days through neglect or
other. We reserve the right to invoice work-to-date and will see the dormant
project through to completion when the client chooses to resurrect it.

**Small projects:** A project with a total estimated production time of 8 hours
or less. We allow a maximum 14 day credit term on small projects (excluding
print lead times) and reserve the right to invoice the full amount upon the 28th
day from submission of first visual/proof.

**Minimum charge:** Any single project or commission that’s accumulative
production time is less than 30 minutes, will be charged at our ‘Minimum Charge’
rate of £35.
